SOURCE: Deccan Herald
TYPE: news_secondary
SECTOR: traffic
STATE: Karnataka
CITY: Bengaluru
URL_OR_REF: https://www.deccanherald.com/india/karnataka/bengaluru/flooding-in-many-parts-of-bengaluru-after-torrential-overnight-rain-3546886
---
[Article "Bengaluru Rain Havoc: Overnight Downpour Floods City Roads, Disrupts Traffic", published 2025-05-19, Deccan Herald]

Bengaluru: Torrential, likely record-breaking, downpour that Bengaluru received on Sunday night exposed the gaps in the city's infrastructure, as residents woke to river-like roads and layouts on Monday.

According to the IMD, Bengaluru City recorded 105.5 mm of rainfall as of 8:30 am on Monday, with nearly 90 mm of rainfall in the intervening night between Sunday and Monday. The Kempegowda International Airport weather station recorded 44.2 mm rainfall while HAL station recorded 78.3 mm rain. The city breached the 100 mm mark in a single day in May for the second time in a decade. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), Kengeri recorded 132 mm of rainfall on Sunday night, the second highest May day rainfall in the past decade, after 155 mm rain was recorded in May 2022.

As per the IMD, however, Bengaluru received 114.6 mm of rainfall on May 18, 2022, the highest in May in the past decade. The all-time record for the highest amount of rainfall in 24 hours in May was set in 1909, with 153.9 mm of rain.

Major areas that were flooded included: Wilson Garden, HSR Layout, Nandagokula Layout in Nagavara, HBR Layout 5th block, Hennur, Sai Layout, Manyata Tech Park, ST Bed Layout in Koramangala, and Silk Board.

Slow-moving traffic due to waterlogged roads was reported on several stretches on Monday morning, including Outer Ring Road (BTM Layout 29th Main cross), Silk Board junction on both sides, Vidyashilp railway underpass towards the Kempegowda International Airport, HSR Layout (multiple areas), NICE Road and Kanakapura Main Road, Sony World Signal, Lowry railway underpass towards Mahadevapura, Hennur underpass, Balagere T Cross, Jnanabharathi and RR Nagar, Bhashyam Circle, Allalasandra, and Kasturi Nagar.

Earthmovers were employed to push out water at the Silk Board junction. Similarly, tractors could be seen near Hennur. A goods vehicle was also found submerged in water at a railway underpass near RMV 2nd stage. The BMTC bus depot at Shantinagar was also inundated, while rescue personnel deployed inflatable boats at Sai Layout. Bengaluru Traffic Police also closed the Electronics City flyover due to waterlogging at Roopena Agrahara.

Uma Mani, a resident of HSR Layout Sector 7, said, "The drains aren't silted properly; drain covers have been left open and rubbish dumped in it. Sections of the stormwater drain weren't completed either. The whole of HSR Layout is flooded." She added that the local MLA and government officials who visited said they have no funds when asked about desilting.

The incessant rains didn't even spare the police as the Central Crime Branch (CCB) office in Shanthinagar was flooded. "Rainwater inundated the ground floor of the building," a police source told DH. "However, there hasn't been any damage, especially regarding case files or documents."
